OK so we've talked about our objectives.
Now let's discuss why we care about modules.
Why do we even use them.
And the most important answer is that they help keep our python files small.
It's the same idea behind functions in a way where we want to keep our code dry.
We don't want to repeat ourselves but with modules it's kind of taken to the next degree because let's
take an example like random generating random numbers is something that one if we knew how to do it
it still takes a lot of code but more importantly most of us don't know how to do it myself included
I don't know how you know I don't know the best way of actually generating a pseudo random number with
Python.
I could come up with some you know pretty bad attempt but to get the closest thing to a random number
I have no idea how to do it.
So instead I can use a module we can also reuse code across our own files by using import.
So we can create our own modules.
Let's say that we have you know some code that we're using.
We have 10 files and we're using the same function in all of them.
We don't need to redefine that function every time.
We could import it and just write it once in a single file.
So we'll see how to do that in just a bit.
And the last thing I'll add is that a module is just a python file.
There's nothing magical about it.
It's just another python file.
So it comes down to the fact that modules help us clean up our own files but also the parts that I think
is most exciting and most useful is that modules allow us to incorporate code from somewhere else.
Often things that we wouldn't be capable of doing on our own.
First up let's discuss using built in modules.
So there are different types of modules.
There are custom modules that we write that we can require in our other files.
There are built in modules which will focus on in this video which are the modules that come with Python
by default but we still have to manually import them to use them.
So Python has a bunch of these modules.
In fact here's a list of them as I scroll.
Each one of these is something we can import and we've already worked with random.
I'll open this in a tab but there are a bunch more modules here that do things like help you make HTP
requests which we'll be working with later help you process audio.
Help you set up date times all these different things.
Most of them I've never used.
I think most people a lot of Python developers don't really ever go beyond a couple of basic modules
but there's a lot of them here.
And the idea is rather than having all of these methods all this functionality always available to you
in python.
A decision was made to move them into separate modules that you can then import at will whenever you
want them.
So you don't have to download anything which is different than external modules which we'll talk about
later in the section.
Those are modules written by someone else or team somewhere else that you can download to your computer
using a package installer.
So we'll see how to do that in a bit but for now let's talk about how we require how we import build
10 modules.
So we've already imported random before.
If you watch the rock paper scissors video where we created the random move functionality we use the
random module but we only used one method on it which was called Rande it but in reality random actually
comes with oh I don't know how many here maybe 20 or so methods maybe more like 30 methods that we can
use.
And random is just one of them.
Here's a couple of others choice and shuffle.
So to use these we have to first import random.
So that tells Python hey you know that module that you have called random I want to use it and then
we can access all those methods by running random dot and in the name of a method.
So I'll copy this to a new file.
Now call it Rande modular that way.
If I paste this in and let me comment this out to start if I try and run these.
What kind of error do we expect.
OK I get name random is not defined and name error because it's trying to find something called random
that doesn't exist.
But if I uncomment the import random and I save and try again this time you don't get an error.
We're not actually printing anything.
So let's just print the first one.
What this will do.
By the way if you're wondering rather than Rand int which you've been using so far to generate a random
integer random choice will take a list and we'll just randomly pick something from that list.
So I'll print a random choice and we get Darrion a very pungent fruit.
You know same thing we could do print random dot Rand int from 1 to 100 and if we run it now we get
79.
All right.
So that's the basic syntax to import something we reference the name of the module.
However there are a couple of other things we can do.
We can actually give we can alias the module name or give it another name that will refer to it by with
the as keyword.
So I can run import random as LMG underscore so underscore random.
Usually you would do this when you have a particularly long module name and some of them can get long
or some of your own custom modules might have a long name.
So you can give them a shorter name.
This is not shorter.
But whatever the name is as you can see we reference LMG so random choice instead of random.
So let's play around with that.
And rather than OMV so random let's do as Rand.
And now I just referred to Rand choice or Rand Rand int.
Let's verify that it works.
And we still get the same thing.
Darrion.
And then this time 63 was chosen we're getting dirty in a lot.
OK.
Now we got Apple.
There we go.
As a side note if you do ever have questions about built in modules which is natural because usually
you know you have a situation where you need to use one like you need a random number if you've never
generated one before.
You go research it and find out how it works.
But for something like eight times that will take a look at.
And just in another video after this one you'll see that you know the process is pretty normal to open
up the docs and go look at the module because by definition code that in a built in module is not used
all the time otherwise it would be relegated to a separate module.
It would just be part of the regular Python set of built in functions.
So it's OK to just go look things up and research and the documentation is pretty good.
Back to the slides Here's the exact same thing but using as to give the name are instead of LMG so random.
And we just refer to our DOT choice shuffle.
Now there's another thing we can do in an import statement where we can actually use the keyword from
to precisely specify which methods or functions we want to import.
So a good rule of thumb is actually to only import what you need.
So random has whatever we decided 20 or 30 methods if we're only using Rand and there's no reason to
import all of that.
Instead we use this pattern from module name from random import.
And if we say star that's the same thing as importing everything.
But we can also import part of the module by referring to individual methods.
So I'll demonstrate that here will do from random
imports.
And then I just write the name of the method they want.
So let's do.
Choice comma Rand.
And then if we try and run this right now.
We'll actually get an error because random is no longer a thing.
In this file all that we've imported our choice in Rand.
And we just call them like this now.
So when you use from to specify exactly the pieces you want then those are available individually under
their own name.
So now I can run them and we get the same results but also just to show you something like shuffle which
is no longer imported let's do a print shuffle beforehand.
This did work but now we'll get an error saying shuffle is not defined.
Name error.
So let's recap all the different ways you've seen to import.
We've seen just do regular import random or import whatever the built in modulus.
Then we've seen how to import random as and then give it some alias.
There's also from random import star.
So this works the same way except it will import all of the functions so we wouldn't even need to specify
choice and shuffle.
But this is generally a bad idea unless you actually need every single piece in random.
It's much better to be more selective.
And then we can also combine it all together so we can be selective in only import choice but give it
a name.
So import choice as give me one comma shuffle as mix up fruits so I could instead called called choice
pick and Rand and as magic number chooser.
And then I just replace choice with pick and Rand and with magic number choosier and it still works.
Ok cool.
So really this video was about introducing the idea of built in modules.
But more importantly about the syntax behind imparting them the rule of thumb you should follow is to
just really import the things you need.
You might not know what you need right away.
So it's OK to keep editing the import statement at a comma and then the name is something else when
you realize that you need.